# 2021HDBproject

The property market in Singapore is a hot topic in conversations across ages and occupations, especially so for the public housing sector, also known as HDB. Living in a HDB flat myself, this data set particularly interested me and is the most relatable. Through this data set, I seek to understand factors that may be important for pricing HDB flats on the secondary market. I hope to be able to come up with a suitable pricing model to predict prices in the resale market.
As data cleaning had already been done, I will not be doing further cleaning such as removing outliers and there were no missing values in the data set. The outcome variable in this data set would be the HDB resale price and as the HDB prices are in large numbers, I have normalized them by dividing them by 1000 to have more manageable numbers to deal with for my reports.  As this is very large data set of 6000 variables, I have also split the data set into a training set of 4500 observations and testing set of 1500 observations with a seeding number of 567834.
In this report, I will firstly be doing unsupervised learning to infer some structure within the dataset through Kernel Density Estimation, K-means Clustering, Hierarchal Clustering and Principal Component Analysis (PCA). Next, I did some descriptive analysis on variables that I felt were potential predictors before attempting to build a predictive model. For my supervised learning algorithm, I considered modeling methods such as linear regression, logit model, K-nearest Neighbors (KNN) regression and the Decision Tree model. Lastly, I picked the model with the best performance and looked up a couple of current listing for HDB’s and predicted their price using my best model. I will not be engaging in any logit or binomial model as I do not find it very useful for my model but research has been done in my R report.
